cloud: create monitor-alert-webhook.md (#23388)
pingcap/docs: tidb-cloud/monitor-alert-webhook.md

---
title: Subscribe via Webhook
summary: Learn how to monitor your TiDB cluster by getting alert notifications via a generic webhook.
---

> # Subscribe via Webhook

Reviewer: It seems that this row in the table should be updated. See https://docs.pingcap.com/tidbcloud/connected-care-detail/
<img width="1501" height="605" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/8406e2d8-c4e9-4369-b2fb-4a835c62e51e" />

TiDB Cloud provides you with an easy way to subscribe to alert notifications via a [Generic Webhook](/tidb-cloud/monitor-alert-webhook.md), [email](/tidb-cloud/monitor-alert-email.md), [Slack](/tidb-cloud/monitor-alert-slack.md), [Zoom](/tidb-cloud/monitor-alert-zoom.md), [Flashduty](/tidb-cloud/monitor-alert-flashduty.md), and [PagerDuty](/tidb-cloud/monitor-alert-pagerduty.md). This document describes how to subscribe to alert notifications via a generic webhook.

> **Note:**
>
> Currently, alert subscription is available for [TiDB Cloud Essential](/tidb-cloud/select-cluster-tier.md#essential) instances, [TiDB Cloud Premium](/tidb-cloud/select-cluster-tier.md#premium) instances, and [TiDB Cloud Dedicated](/tidb-cloud/select-cluster-tier.md#tidb-cloud-dedicated) clusters.

## Prerequisites

- The subscribing via webhook feature is only available for organizations that subscribe to the **Enterprise** or **Premium** support plan.

> - You need a webhook URL from the platform that you want to receive alert notifications on (for example, Telegram, Microsoft Teams, or your own on-call system that can receive an HTTP POST request with a JSON payload). Currently, TiDB Cloud does not support customizing the request headers or the payload format.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You need a webhook URL from the platform where you want to receive alert notifications on (for example, Telegram, Microsoft Teams, or your own on-call system that accepts HTTP POST requests with a JSON payload). Currently, TiDB Cloud does not support customizing the request headers or the payload format.
```

## Subscribe to alert notifications

Alert notification subscriptions vary by [your TiDB Cloud plan](/tidb-cloud/select-cluster-tier.md).

<CustomContent plan="dedicated">

To subscribe to alert notifications of {{{ .dedicated }}} clusters, take the following steps:

> **Tip:**
>
> For {{{ .dedicated }}}, the alert subscription is for all alerts in the current project. If you have multiple {{{ .dedicated }}} clusters in the project, you just need to subscribe once.

1. In the [TiDB Cloud console](https://tidbcloud.com), navigate to the [**My TiDB**](https://tidbcloud.com/tidbs) page of your organization, and then click the **Project view** tab.
2. In the project view, locate your target project, and then click <MDSvgIcon name="icon-project-settings" /> for the project.
3. In the left navigation pane, click **Alert Subscription** under **Project Settings**.
4. On the **Alert Subscription** page, click **Add Subscriber** in the upper-right corner.
5. Select **Webhook** from the **Subscriber Type** drop-down list.
6. Enter a name in the **Name** field and your webhook URL in the **Webhook URL** field.
7. Click **Save**. The backend will test connection and save for you. 

>     - If the test fails, an error message is displayed. Follow the message to troubleshoot the issue and retry the connection.

Reviewer: For a lone item, we can just put it there without using a list.
```suggestion
    If the test fails, an error message is displayed. Follow the message to troubleshoot the issue and retry the connection.
```

Alternatively, you can also click **Subscribe** in the upper-right corner of the **Alert** page of the target {{{ .dedicated }}} cluster. You will be directed to the **Alert Subscription** page.

</CustomContent>

<CustomContent plan="essential">

> **Tip:**
>
> For {{{ .essential }}}, the alert subscription is for all alerts in the current instance. If you have multiple {{{ .essential }}} instances, you need to subscribe to each instance individually.

1. In the [TiDB Cloud console](https://tidbcloud.com), navigate to the [**My TiDB**](https://tidbcloud.com/tidbs) page of your organization, and then click the name of your target {{{ .essential }}} instance to go to its overview page.
2. In the left navigation pane, click **Settings** > **Alert Subscription**.
3. On the **Alert Subscription** page, click **Add Subscriber** in the upper-right corner.
4. Select **Webhook** from the **Subscriber Type** drop-down list.
5. Enter a name in the **Name** field and your webhook URL in the **Webhook URL** field.
6. Click **Save**. The backend will test connection and save for you. 

>     - If the test fails, an error message is displayed. Follow the message to troubleshoot the issue and retry the connection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    If the test fails, an error message is displayed. Follow the message to troubleshoot the issue and retry the connection.
```

Alternatively, you can also click **Subscribe** in the upper-right corner of the **Alert** page of the target {{{ .essential }}} instance. You will be directed to the **Alert Subscription** page.

</CustomContent>

<CustomContent plan="premium">

> **Tip:**
>
> For {{{ .premium }}}, the alert subscription is for all alerts in the current instance. If you have multiple {{{ .premium }}} instances, you need to subscribe to each instance individually.

1. In the [TiDB Cloud console](https://tidbcloud.com), navigate to the [**My TiDB**](https://tidbcloud.com/tidbs) page of your organization, and then click the name of your target {{{ .premium }}} instance to go to its overview page.
2. In the left navigation pane, click **Settings** > **Alert Subscription**.
3. On the **Alert Subscription** page, click **Add Subscriber** in the upper-right corner.
4. Select **Webhook** from the **Subscriber Type** drop-down list.
5. Enter a name in the **Name** field and your webhook URL in the **Webhook URL** field.
6. Click **Save**. The backend will test connection and save for you. 

>     - If the test fails, an error message is displayed. Follow the message to troubleshoot the issue and retry the connection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    If the test fails, an error message is displayed. Follow the message to troubleshoot the issue and retry the connection.
```
